In this video, we're going to have a look at the composer feature more inside of cursor.
We're also going to build a dashboard layout for an e-commerce web page using composer, strictly inside
of a Next.js application.
You can see here we have some cursor rules.
And we've also told the cursor that the Next.js code is going to be maintained inside the client folder.
To open composer on a mac, hit Command Shift I.
You can do this on windows specifically with control shift I.
Now we're going to go and create a new single composer.
So you can always revisit your previous composers.
Also you can add files to each composer.
You might want to bring in multiple files.
We're using composer to generate multiple bits of code.
For now we're going to create an e-commerce dashboard layout.
So say I want to create an e-commerce dashboard layout with the following functionality.
We'll say add to cart Multiple items of the same to cart.
Quantity.
And then we're going to let cursor do its thing.
So what happens is when you do this cursor will make a plan.
And you can see that on the right.
And on the left hand side you can see all of the files that cursor is creating.
So we've got this product called TSX, the product list TSX.
The cart TSX and the page TSX, which has now been renamed to a dashboard.
Now, if we close our composer down into an open floating composer, you can actually go and have a
look at all the files that would be created.
Open the floating version of that and you can see if you go here, you can actually see all the files
that it would naturally create.
And you can see the changes if you want, save the file, go and have a look at those files before.
The benefit of doing this is that if you need to delete these files, you don't necessarily have to
tidy up the project.
Obviously you can accept them and we'll see in a second how we can accept all the files and just do
that in one go.
Now we are going to run into problems when we load this Next.js application.
So you can see here we've got two imports.
If I try and run this Next.js application let's have a look and see what happens.
So we're running into this issue where we can't import a specific button.
What we can do is we can import these directly into composer to then fix these.
And this will be a specifically a CDN problem where we actually need to install Shad CDN inside the
project, and we need to import some Shad CDN components.
Let's have a look at how we can do this using composer.
One way to do this is to gather up all of the different problems inside of the entire project with the
problems tab, and just go back to composer window and copy these in.
So I've copied one and then I like to do a floating composer for this.
And I'm just going to go through and copy all of these problems directly into composer.
And then we can add the product card and then we can add the sidebar.
So it's basically adding all of the problems that we find inside.
And then we've got a floating window of composer telling us about all of these different things, and
then you've got these imports as well.
So let's have a look so we can accept all of these.
And then we can see that we haven't fixed these issues.
The reason probably for this is that we need to install shared components.
So let's have a look.
How do I set up shared CDN.
And we'll get some steps for how we can set that up.
So again we've got these steps here I'm going to run these on my terminal.
And I'm just going to walk through the shadow CDN setup.
So I'm just doing that.
And then after I've done that and we need to install the dependencies we've got the tailwind base.
Then we need to add on the button the.
After running those imports for shadow CDN we can now add these to our cart.
Now we can also do the quantities.
So I can add lots of these products.
And as well as that I can also remove these from my cart.
So that's really nice.
Now, one thing I want to talk about is now that we've got these files created, we can start editing
the UI and improving that using cursor as well.
And specifically looking at how we do that in composer.
So let's go back to the Next.js application inside of cursor.
And let's actually make these e-commerce dashboard page look really nice.
So I'm going to make a new composer.
I'm going to add the product card the product list.
So now I'm adding all of these individual files directly to composer so that we can do a nice rewrite.
I want to make the e-commerce dashboard page really good and have a great UI.
The shopping cart icon that is like a modal make this UI really slick and streamlined.
So what we've done is we've generated all the files and added these to the composer reference, and
then it's using these files to then basically change the page TSX and it's added on some styling It's
also changing the product list and the product card and also the cart components.
So it's rewriting these files dynamically.
Given our instructions, I think everything's fine.
It's also told us that we need to install Lasset react, so we'll make sure that we have that installed.
I'm going to click Accept All, and then I'm going to go back to the Next.js application and have a
look at how that looks on the front end.
Okay.
Cool.
So it looks like we're getting a couple more errors.
And you can see here we've got a scroll area component which has not been properly installed.
And also if we look at the rest of the code we've probably got a couple more errors.
So we can go back into composer, feed these errors in and figure out what we should be doing next.
So I'm going to hit command shift.
I, I'm going to bring this to a floating composer.
And then I'm just going to go and copy all of these TypeScript errors by clicking these and copying
these directly from the problems tab.
And then we can then use composer in the floating window to figure out exactly how we fix these.
And you can see it's probably telling us we need to install Shatkin UI and then we need to run these
commands as well.
So I'm going to run these commands in my terminal and then we'll see if that's fixed the application.
All right.
So I've run those commands in my terminal.
And you can see I don't have any problems and the problems tabs anymore.
So let's go and restart the Next.js server and have a look at that inside of the browser.
All right.
Cool.
So it looks like we've got a slightly better UI.
I have the ability to add multiple products to my car.
I've got this really nice ability to have a cart that appears on the side.
And when I hit escape it will close that down.
And you can see we've also got a checkout.
For example, we could add four or we could just add one product.
One other thing I might want to do is I might want someone to allow them to increment or decrement the
product whilst it in the car, and also when we have the delete.
I also want to have a confirmation a window that pops up saying to the user, are you sure you want
to delete that item from your cart?
So let's implement those in composer.
So I'm going to take the floating window and put it back into the control panel And then I'm going to
say, I want you to allow the user to decrement or increment items.
Quantity.
Item quantities within the cart component.
Also, I want to have a window confirmation that when a user is about to delete the item from the cart,
and again, we've given two instructions here.
We're now asking composer to rewrite this, and you can see it's decided to write more code that we're
currently editing the cart page.
And we're specifically adding some extra things.
And we've also updated the dashboard with an update cart item quantity.
And we also need to run this command here and add the alert dialog as well.
So I'm going to run that on the terminal.
I'm going to click accept all the changes.
And then I'm going to close this composer down for now.
And what I'm going to do now is install this package inside of Shadchan and then restart the Next.js
server and see if that's fixed the problem.
So installing that specifically Shadchan component has now fixed the problem.
Tab.
Let's restart the server and have a look on the front end.
All right so it looks good.
Looks like it's working.
So I can add five products.
I've got five in here.
And you can see I can also increment or decrement each individual product.
Let's also check the other feature that we were requesting.
For example I want to delete this.
Are you sure you want to remove this item from your cart?
We can click remove.
And then now the cart is empty.
You can see how easy it is to implement these features.
We've done this in about nine minutes of recording.
And you could add lots of different feature requirements.
And it's going to edit, update, create and delete different files in succession.
And it will allow you to rapidly prototype your full stack applications using Cursor Composer.
In the next lesson, we're going to have a look at how you can do more with composer.
We will add, for example, prompts templates that are going to help us bootstrap parts of the project
using composer.
All right, I'll see you in the next one.